# Notes for supervion

## 23rd April 2020

## Upper Indus Mask

The mask provided by Hamish Pritchard and Tony Phillips is given as a:

1. the fracional overlap of ERA 5 grid with the Upper Indus Basin (values 0-1)
2. a list of 10 Patch objects
3. a list of latitude boundaries
4. a list of longitude boundaries

Last weeks plots using the overlap array with values larger than 0 as a mask.

[image](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/kdjc8nygvt7tit4/Screenshot%202020-04-21%20at%2013.21.02.png?dl=0) 
[image](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/3esb3idcpxhai8f/Screenshot%202020-04-19%20at%2011.55.44.png?dl=0)


## Probability distribution

I plotted the probability distribution for each month for whole basin. However it would be far more interesting to divide the areas into sub-basins which have different suceptibilties to westerly fronts (from November) or the Indian Monsoon (July-September) (Dahri et al., 2015). In the figure below it is still possible to observe differences between these two drivers:

* The distributions between July and September has a higher median but is much less difuse.
* The distributions for October to December have low medians and exponentially deacrease for higher precipiations.
* February to March distributions are characterised by very long tails.

[image](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/4ooq153r7f5jhy0/Screenshot%202020-04-23%20at%2015.33.47.png?dl=0)

## Zeros in data set

112 zeros in the data set and even one negative value (-4.163336e-16)

[image](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/f6i6gr2s6lxg9lw/Screenshot%202020-04-23%20at%2018.32.35.png?dl=0)

## Literature

I haven't read any new papers this week.

## Possible next steps

For next week, I could:

1. Learn how to access and processs JASMIN data.
2. Download other interesting variables to include in the regression (elevation, pressure, temperature)
4. Formulating metrics,
5. Divide study area into sub basins
6. Read:
    * Huffman G.J. et al. "The TRMM multisatellite precipitation analysis (TMPA): Quasi-global, multiyear, combined-sensor precipitation estimates at fine scales." Journal of hydrometeorology 8.1 (2007): 38-55,
    * Mölg T. "Mid-latitude westerlies as a driver of glacier variability in monsoonal High Asia." Nature Climate Change 4.1 (2014): 68-73.
    * Lutz AF et al . “Climate change impacts on the upper Indus hydrology: Sources, shifts and extremes”. PloS one 11.11 (2016).